README.md, before:

# simple_quad_gazebo
Very simple quadcopter for Gazebo using ROS2 Galactic. It's just a very cheap and dirty adaptation of a pre-existent Gazebo plugin called "hand of god", but now it looks like a quadcopter and you can send velocity commands too. In addition to that, it makes the quad **look** a little bit more realistic by **faking** the pitch and roll angles according to the acceleration. All settings are easy to understand, just check the [simple_quad.urdf](src/simple_quad/src/description/simple_quad.urdf).     
I wrote this because I wanted something faster than the quad plugins available for Gazebo, but I wrote the code without worried about writing an optimized code and I never tested it against anything to confirm it's really faster than those plugins... LOL.

The easiest way to test it is cloning this repo and using docker with [this script](https://github.com/ricardodeazambuja/ros2-playground/blob/main/launch_ros2_desktop.sh) from the repo's root directory (the `-d .` will mount the current dir inside the docker container):
```
launch_ros2_desktop.sh -g -d . --image ricardodeazambuja/ros2-galactic-desktop
```


```
colcon build --symlink-install
```

```
. install/setup.bash
```

```
ros2 launch simple_quad display.launch.py
```

```
ros2 launch simple_quad slam.launch.py 
```

```
ros2 launch simple_quad navigation.launch.py
```

Move to Z=0.5:
```
ros2 topic pub /cmd_pos geometry_msgs/msg/Pose "position:
  x: 0.0
  y: 0.0
  z: 0.5
orientation:
  x: 0.0
  y: 0.0
  z: 0.0
  w: 1.0" -1
```

Spin around Z with velocity 0.5rad/s:
```
ros2 topic pub /cmd_vel geometry_msgs/msg/Twist "linear:
  x: 0.0
  y: 0.0
  z: 0.0
angular:
  x: 0.0
  y: 0.0
  z: 0.5" -1
```

Control it using the keyboard:
```
ros2 run teleop_twist_keyboard teleop_twist_keyboard --ros-args -r teleop_twist_keyboard:cmd_vel:=/cmd_vel
```

## Notes
* ExecuteProcess has a very useful parameter called `respawn` that relaunches a process that abnormally died (and you can control the delay with `respawn_delay`). I added that to te `display.launch.py` and it helped launching Gazebo more reliably.
* Next step is to use the (Event Handlers)[https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/Tutorials/Launch/Using-Event-Handlers.html]

Commit message:

Downgrade to ROS1 Noetic
Perform downgrade from ROS2 Galactic to ROS1 Noetic

- Backport geometry and navigation messages
- Update launch files (XML from Python)
- Restore catkin_make build system
- Migrate URDF model and Gazebo and RViz configuration files back to
  ROS1
- Force drone pose to z=5.0
- Update README: Remove ROS2 references and add ROS1 instructions

README.md, after:

# simple_quad_gazebo
Very simple quadcopter for Gazebo using ROS1 Noetic. It's just a very cheap and dirty adaptation of a pre-existent Gazebo plugin called "hand of god", but now it looks like a quadcopter and you can send velocity commands too. In addition to that, it makes the quad **look** a little bit more realistic by **faking** the pitch and roll angles according to the acceleration. All settings are easy to understand, just check the [simple_quad.urdf](src/simple_quad/src/description/simple_quad.urdf).
Ricardo wrote this because he wanted something faster than the quad plugins available for Gazebo, but he wrote the code without worrying about writing an optimized code and we never tested it against anything to confirm it's really faster than those plugins.

```
catkin_make
```

```
. devel/setup.bash
```

```
roslaunch simple_quad display.launch
```

Move to Z=0.5:
```
rostopic pub /cmd_pos geometry_msgs/Pose "position:
  x: 0.0
  y: 0.0
  z: 0.5
orientation:
  x: 0.0
  y: 0.0
  z: 0.0
  w: 1.0" -1
```

Spin around Z with velocity 0.5rad/s:
```
rostopic pub /cmd_vel geometry_msgs/Twist "linear:
  x: 0.0
  y: 0.0
  z: 0.0
angular:
  x: 0.0
  y: 0.0
  z: 0.5" -1
```

Control it using the keyboard:
```
rosrun teleop_twist_keyboard teleop_twist_keyboard
```
